Add cookbook example for testing SSL-enabled applications (#98)
mulesoft/docs-munit: modules/ROOT/pages/test-ssl-enabled-sources-cookbook.adoc

= Testing SSL-Enabled Applications
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> To test an application that has an HTTP Listener with SSL configured, you must configure an SSL truststore in your test to send authenticated requests to your code using a TLS certificate.

Reviewer: I want to mention the two test writing methods and the Maven exception right in the beginning, so that we can focus on the primary text about using a TLS certificate. How about this:
```suggestion
Unless you are running your test from Maven, you create an MUnit test for an application that has an HTTP Listener with SSL configured by adding an SSL truststore in your test, to send authenticated requests to your code using a TLS certificate. You can either write your test, or you can scaffold your test using APIkit.
```

> == Example

Reviewer: I suggest omitting this heading and using the scenario as the topic set intro, and then moving to the two testing methods.
```suggestion
```

Assume that you want to test the following Mule application:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<tls:context name="TLS_Context">  //<1>
  <tls:trust-store path="client_truststore.ts" password="123456" insecure="false" />
  <tls:key-store type="jks" path="server.jks" alias="serverkey" keyPassword="123456" password="123456"/>
</tls:context>

<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" basePath="/">
  <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8083" protocol="HTTPS" tlsContext="TLS_Context" /> //<2>
</http:listener-config>

<flow name="tlsExampleFlow">
  <http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/"/>
  <set-payload value='#[output application/json --- {"name": "John Doe"}]' doc:name="Set Payload"/>
</flow>
----

> Note that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in this example syntax:
```

> <1> This application defines a TLS context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Comment <1> 
This application defines a TLS context.
```

> <2> The HTTP Lister is validating all requests using the TLS context previously defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Comment <2> 
The HTTP Lister is validating all requests using the TLS context previously defined.
```

Depending on how you created your test, there are two ways of testing the previous example:

> * If you are writing your test, invoke the flow being tested using a `flow-ref` component. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you write your test, invoke the flow being tested using a `flow-ref` component. +
```

> See the <<flow-ref-test,Testing Using a Flow-Ref Component>> section for more information.

Reviewer: OMIT; subtopic is close
```suggestion
```

> * If you scaffolded your test using APIkit, your test uses HTTP requesters to reach the application endpoints. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you scaffold your test using APIkit, your test uses HTTP requesters to reach the application endpoints. +
```

> See the <<request-test, Testing Using an HTTP Requester>> section for more information.

Reviewer: DITTO
```suggestion
```

[[flow-ref-test]]
== Testing Using a Flow-Ref Component

> To validate the behavior of your flow, your MUnit test must invoke the flow you want to test using a `flow:ref` component. In this case, the Execution scope in your MUnit test must looks as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To validate the behavior of your flow, your MUnit test must invoke the flow you want to test using a `flow:ref` component. In this case, the execution scope in your MUnit test looks like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
(...)

<munit:test name="example-using-tls-context" description="Test">
  (...)
  <munit:execution >
    <flow-ref doc:name="Flow Reference" name="tlsExampleFlow"/>
  </munit:execution>
(...)
----

> A full test to, for example, assert the payload of the application would look as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full test, to assert the payload of the application, for example, looks like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
	<munit:config name="tls-example-test-suite.xml" />

  <munit:test name="example-using-flow-ref">
		<munit:execution >
			<flow-ref doc:name="Flow Reference" name="tlsExampleFlow"/>
		</munit:execution>
		<munit:validation >
			<munit-tools:assert-that doc:name="Assert that" expression="#[payload.name]" is='#[MunitTools::equalTo("John Doe")]'/>
		</munit:validation>
	</munit:test>

----

> 

Reviewer: Is there anything useful to add here about the effect that using this method has? What happens as a result?
If not, don't force it!  :-)

[[request-test]]
== Testing Using an HTTP Requester

> To test the Mule application in the previous example section using an HTTP requester, your MUnit test must send an HTTP request to your application using the same TLS context that the HTTP listener expects. In this case, the Execution scope in your MUnit test must look as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test the example Mule application using an HTTP requester, your MUnit test must send an HTTP request to your application using the same TLS context that the HTTP listener expects. In this case, the execution scope in your MUnit test looks like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<munit:config name="tls-example-test-suite.xml" />
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_configuration_Test"> //<1>
  <http:request-connection protocol="HTTPS" host="localhost" port="8083">
    <tls:context> //<2>
      <tls:trust-store path="client_truststore.ts" password="123456" insecure="true"/>
      <tls:key-store type="jks" path="server.jks" alias="serverkey" keyPassword="123456" password="123456"/>
    </tls:context>
  </http:request-connection>
</http:request-config>

<munit:test name="example-using-tls-context" description="Test">
  (...)
  <munit:execution >
    <http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration_Test" path="/"/> //<3>
  </munit:execution>
  (...)
----

Note that:

> <1> You are configuring an HTTP requester to use in your Execution scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> You are configuring an HTTP requester to use in your execution scope.
```

<2> Inside your HTTP request, you are configuring the same TLS context used in your Mule application code, and setting the `insecure` property of your truststore to `true`.

> <3> Inside your Execution scope, you send a request to your Mule application using the TLS context previously configured.

Reviewer: ditto same format suggest above for Comments

> <3> Inside your Execution scope, you send a request to your Mule application using the TLS context previously configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Inside your execution scope, you are sending a request to your Mule application using the TLS context previously configured.
```

> A full test to, for example, assert the payload of the application would look as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full test, to assert the payload of the application, for example, looks like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<munit:config name="tls-example-test-suite.xml" />
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_configuration_Test">
  <http:request-connection protocol="HTTPS" host="localhost" port="8083">
      <tls:context>
        <tls:trust-store path="client_truststore.ts" password="123456" insecure="true"/>
        <tls:key-store type="jks" path="server.jks" alias="serverkey" keyPassword="123456" password="123456"/>
      </tls:context>
  </http:request-connection>
</http:request-config>
<munit:test name="example-using-tls-context" description="Test">
  <munit:enable-flow-sources >
    <munit:enable-flow-source value="tlsExampleFlow" />
  </munit:enable-flow-sources>
  <munit:execution >
    <http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration_Test" path="/"/>
  </munit:execution>
  <munit:validation >
    <munit-tools:assert-that expression="#[payload.name]" is='#[MunitTools::equalTo("John Doe")]'/>
  </munit:validation>
</munit:test>
----

> === Running Your Test From Maven

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Running Your Test from Maven
```
